# Face recognition using Histograms of Oriented Gradients> 这篇论文的主要内容是将Hog算子应用到人脸识别上。
## 1. Main Contribution+ Extract Hog descriptors from a regular grid.
+ Fusion of HOG descriptors at different scales allows to capture important structure+ Dimensionality reduction is necessary to make the classification less prone to over-fitting.## 2. Feature Conclusion> Features includes geometric or photometric, latter seems to have prevailed in the literature:
+ Eigenfaces( Principal Component Analysis)+ Gabor wavelets+ Local Binary Patterns+ Error-Correcting Output Codes+ Independent Component Analysis## 3. Improved Hog> Improved Hog for invariance to scale and rotation may be also achieved by extracting descriptors from only salient points (key points) in the scale space following a rotation normalization. The steps involved are:
+ Scale-space extrema detection. (achieve scale invariance)+ Orientation assignment. (find the dominant gradient orientation)+ Descriptor extraction.## 4. Previous Hog representation for faces> In (Albiol et al., 2008), the authors successfully applied Hog to the face recognition.	
+ In the 2008 paper, faces are previous normalized in scale and orientation, So the step for scale-space extrema detection were not necessary.+ A set of 25 facial landmarks were localizaed using Active Apperence Models(AAMs).+ Hog descriptors are extracted from the vicinity of each of these 25 landmarks.+ Using nearest neighbor and Enclidean distance to classify.> Drawback of this method:
+ Final error may crucially depend on the reliability of the landmark localizations, and the landmarks are not precisely due to occlusions, strong illuminations or pose changes.## 5. Improved Method by this paper+ First normalize the face and then extract HOG features from a regular grid. The grid is formed by placing equal side patches around a first cell centered in the image, until the whole image is covered. + The paper hypothesize that a better result could be obtained by combining information from different patch sizes. And the paper considered a new fusion strategy that is the product combination of the classifiers at patch sizes.+ Several overlapping patches are used, so the final feature representation will be highly redundant, So dimensionality reduction is necessary.
### 5.1 Detail of the fusion strategy+ R individual classifications c_k (k=1,…,R), each one trained using Hog features with different patch sizes. Each classifier gives one input sample x_k a posterior probability vector:
> P<sub>k</sub>=[p(w<sub>1</sub>│x<sub>k</sub>),…,p(w<sub>m</sub>│x<sub>k</sub> )]
+ The product rule cosists of fusing the final decision as:
> j=argmax<sub>i</sub>⁡ p(w<sub>i</sub>)待添加## 6. Experiments+ Effect of the facial feature localization error on the final recognition performance. Large error on the localization of facial features leads to bad classification performance.	+ Evaluate the performance of the method in 4.	+ Calculate the dispersion of coordinates(ellpse fitting) and the total sum of variances of the localized landmarks. Bigger variance, bad performance.+ Extracting regular grids and patch size combination	+ Hog features are processed by PCA and LDA.	+ Nearest classifier with Enclidean and cosine distances is used.	+ Combination of 8×8, 12×12, 16×16, 20×20, 24×24, 28×28 patches.	+ Compare of computation time of the landmark method and the regular grid method.
	## 7. Reference+ [1]. Déniz O, Bueno G, Salido J, et al. Face recognition using histograms of oriented gradients[J]. Pattern Recognition Letters, 2011, 32(12): 1598-1603.